chore(RHTAPWATCH-117): Update the documentation about how to add a new dashboard (#1807)
redhat-appstudio/infra-deployments: components/monitoring/README.md

                   `openshift.io/cluster-monitoring: 'true'`. Otherwise, it will not be
                   monitored by the user workload Prometheus instance.

### 3. Grafana dashboards

A dashboard is a set of one or more panels organized and arranged into one or more rows. It visualizes results from multiple data sources simultaneously.
New dashboards can be added through the user interface, preconfigured in infra-deployment project, or imported from other projects.

#### Create a dashboard

>   - [Create a dashboard](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v9.0/dashboards/) for your team's view of your service's Service Level Indicators. (After navigating to your folder, + Create Dashboard)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Create a dashboard](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v9.0/dashboards/)
   for your team's view of your service's Service Level Indicators. (After navigating to your
   folder + Create Dashboard)  
```

Author: Done

  ***Note:***  
  Creating a new dashboard is available only in development environment.

>   You may consider editing the existing `example` dashboard For staging and production environments  

Reviewer 2: Perhaps add a link to a sample here if possible

Author: Added a link to the `example` dashboard json file

>   You may consider editing the existing `example` dashboard For staging and production environments  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You may consider editing the existing `example` dashboard for staging and production environments  
```

Author: Done

>   - Add tiles to the dashboard to track your initial set of service level indicators. If you correctly added your servicemonitor to the stage Prometheus datasource, it will show up in the Query list when you edit a tile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add tiles to the dashboard to track your initial set of service level indicators. If you correctly added your
   servicemonitor to the stage Prometheus datasource, it will show up in the Query list when you edit a tile.
```

>   - Add tiles to the dashboard to track your initial set of service level indicators. If you correctly added your servicemonitor to the stage Prometheus datasource, it will show up in the Query list when you edit a tile.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - If the servicemonitor was added correctly to the stage Prometheus datasource
```

Also s/Query/query

>   - Add tiles to the dashboard to track your initial set of service level indicators. If you correctly added your servicemonitor to the stage Prometheus datasource, it will show up in the Query list when you edit a tile.

Author: Done

  - Export the dashboard definition in JSON format. (At the top of the screen, the icon with 3 dots lets you "Share dashboard or panel". Select Export... Save to file.)
   

#### Team's repository

Follow the next steps to define a dashboard in your team's repository

>   - The dashboard should be located in the team’s repository (and not in infra-deployments repository), 

Author: Done

  the recommended structure is:
    ```
    ├── grafana
    │   ├── dashboards
    │   │   └── <teams_dashboard>.json
    │   ├── <GrafanaDashboard resource file>
    │   └── kustomization.yaml
    ```
    For example:
    ```
    ├── grafana
    │   ├── dashboards
    │   │   └── o11y-dashboard.json
    │   ├── dashboard.yaml
    │   └── kustomization.yaml
    ```

>   - Create a folder in your team's repository to maintain the dashboard configuration (i.e: grafana)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Create a folder in your team's repository to maintain the dashboard configuration (e.g. grafana)
```

Author: Done

>   - Edit the dashboard json file and **remove** `datasource` from it, for example:

Author: I added a note in the `Grafana Datasource` section (I added it to this README file)

    ``` 
    "datasource": {
      "type": "prometheus",
      "uid": "PF224BEF3374A25F8"
    }
    ```

>   - Add dashboard json to the folder you created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Add the dashboard json file to the folder you created.
```

Author: Done

>   - Add dashboard json to the folder you created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Add the dashboard json file to the folder you created.
```

Author: Done

>   - Create a `kustomization.yaml` to generate a config map from the dashboard json, and to add the `grafanaDashboard` resource file (`dashboard.yaml`) for example: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Create a `kustomization.yaml` to generate a config map from the dashboard json, and to add the `grafanaDashboard` resource file (`dashboard.yaml`), for example: 
```

Author: Done

    ```
    kind: Kustomization
    apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1

    namespace: o11y

    configMapGenerator:
      - name: grafana-dashboard-o11y
        files:
          - dashboards/o11y-dashboard.json

    resources:
      - dashboard.yaml
    ```
  
  - Create the `GrafanaDashboard` resource file that uses the config map to create the dashboard
    ```
    apiVersion: integreatly.org/v1alpha1
    kind: GrafanaDashboard
    metadata:
      name: grafana-dashboard-o11y
      labels:
        app: appstudio-grafana
    spec:
      configMapRef:
        name: grafana-dashboard-o11y
        key: o11y-dashboard.json
    ```

>  - push the code to the team's repository

Author: Done

 - Check out [this example o11y PR](https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/o11y/pull/39) for creating a dashboard in the team's repository
  

#### infra-deployments repository

> Follow the next steps to add the dashborad you just created to infra-deployments

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Follow the next steps to add a dashborad to  the `infra-deployments` repository
```

Author: Done

  - Create a team folder under `components/monitoring/grafana/base/<team_name>`
  
  - Create a kustomization.yaml file and add the dashboard you created as a resource by using the commit sha as ref, for example:
    ```
    apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: Kustomization
    resources:
        - https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/o11y/grafana/?ref=82bec1c488250ae32d458c77755e432329be1b45
    ```
    
  - Add your dashboard to the base [kustomization file](https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/infra-deployments/blob/main/components/monitoring/grafana/base/kustomization.yaml#L14) to automatically add it to future deployments.
   

>   - Push the code to infra-deployments repository

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Push the code to the `infra-deployments` repository
```

Author: Done

#### Verification

> Follow the next steps to To verify and check your dashboard after merging the configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the next steps to verify and check your dashboard after merging the configurations
```

Author: Done

> Follow the next steps to To verify and check your dashboard after merging the configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the next steps to verify and check your dashboard after merging the configurations
```

Author: Done

- Open the Grafana UI

- Click the `Manage` option in the `Dashboards` menu

> - Verify that your team’s dashboard is located under appstudio-grafana folder 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Verify that your team’s dashboard is located under `appstudio-grafana` folder 
```
since this is a step-by-step, perhaps we should use numbers instead of dashes

Author: Done

or imported from other projects.

#### Create a dashboard

  - [Create a dashboard](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v9.0/dashboards/)
  for your team's view of your service's Service Level Indicators.
  (After navigating to your folder, + Create Dashboard)  
  ***Note:***  
  Creating a new dashboard is available only for development environment.  
  You may consider editing the existing `example` dashboard for staging and production environments  
  The `example` dashboard json deifinition can be found 
  [here](https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/infra-deployments/blob/main/components/monitoring/grafana/base/dashboards/example.json)

  - Add tiles to the dashboard to track your initial set of service level indicators.  
  If the servicemonitor was added ocrrectly to the stage Prometheus datasource, 
  it will show up in the query list when you edit a tile.

  - Export the dashboard definition in JSON format. 
  (At the top of the screen, the icon with 3 dots lets you "Share dashboard or panel". Select Export... Save to file.)
   

#### Team's repository

Follow the next steps to define a dashboard in your team's repository

>   - The dashboard should be located in the team’s repository, no change in `infra-deployments` is required,

Reviewer 3: As those steps should be done one-after-the-other, use digits instead of dashes

Author: Updated to digits

    }
    ```
  - Add the dashboard json file to the folder you created.

  - Create a `kustomization.yaml` to generate a config map from the dashboard json, 
  and to add the `GrafanaDashboard` resource file (`dashboard.yaml`), for example: 
    ```
    kind: Kustomization
    apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1

    namespace: o11y

    configMapGenerator:
      - name: grafana-dashboard-o11y
        files:
          - dashboards/o11y-dashboard.json

    resources:
      - dashboard.yaml
    ```
  
  - Create the `GrafanaDashboard` resource file that uses the config map to create the dashboard
    ```
    apiVersion: integreatly.org/v1alpha1
    kind: GrafanaDashboard
    metadata:
      name: grafana-dashboard-o11y
      labels:
        app: appstudio-grafana
    spec:
      configMapRef:
        name: grafana-dashboard-o11y
        key: o11y-dashboard.json
    ```
 - Push the code to the team's repository

 - Check out [this example o11y PR](https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/o11y/pull/39) 
 for creating a dashboard in the team's repository
  

#### infra-deployments repository
Follow the next steps to add a dashborad to the `infra-deployments` repository

>   - Create a team folder under `components/monitoring/grafana/base/<team_name>`

Reviewer 3: As those steps should be done one-after-the-other, use digits instead of dashes

Author: Updated to digits

  
  - Create a `kustomization.yaml` file and add the dashboard you created as a resource by using the commit sha as ref, 
  for example:
    ```
    apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: Kustomization
    resources:
        - https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/o11y/grafana/?ref=82bec1c488250ae32d458c77755e432329be1b45
    ```
    
  - Add your team's folder to the base [kustomization file](https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/infra-deployments/blob/main/components/monitoring/grafana/base/kustomization.yaml#L14) to automatically add it to future deployments.
   
  - Push the code to the `infra-deployments` repository

#### Verification

Follow the next steps to to verify and check your dashboard after merging the configurations

> - Open the Grafana UI

Reviewer 3: As those steps should be done one-after-the-other, use digits instead of dashes

Author: Updated to digits

> **_IMPORTANT:_** make sure your service's namespace does NOT contain label
                   `openshift.io/cluster-monitoring: 'true'`. Otherwise, it will not be
                   monitored by the user workload Prometheus instance.
                  

### 3. Grafana Datasource

Grafana datasources contain the connection settings to the Prometheus instances.

A single [datasource (Thanos querier)](https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/infra-deployments/blob/main/components/monitoring/grafana/base/grafana-app.yaml#L206), `appstudio-datasource` is defined and it lets us query metrics from the Platform and User Workload Monitoring Prometheus.

To use this default datasource any definition of a datasource in the dashboard json file should be removed or a `templating` should be used.

### 4. Grafana dashboards

A dashboard is a set of one or more panels organized and arranged into one or more rows. 
It visualizes results from multiple data sources simultaneously.

> New dashboards can be added through the user interface, preconfigured in infra-deployment project, 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
New dashboards can be added through the user interface, preconfigured in the infra-deployments repository, 
```

or imported from other projects.

#### Create a dashboard

  1. [Create a dashboard](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v9.0/dashboards/)
  for your team's view of your service's Service Level Indicators.
  (After navigating to your folder, + Create Dashboard)  
  ***Note:***  

>   Creating a new dashboard is available only for development environment.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  Creating a new dashboard manually is available only for development environments.  
```

>   You may consider editing the existing `example` dashboard for staging and production environments 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  You may copy and edit the `example` dashboard json instead, and test the new dashboard on the staging and production environments. 
```

>       The `example` dashboard json deifinition can be found 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      The `example` dashboard json definition can be found 
```

      [here](https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/infra-deployments/blob/main/components/monitoring/grafana/base/dashboards/example.json)

  2. Add tiles to the dashboard to track your initial set of service level indicators.  

>   If the servicemonitor was added ocrrectly to the stage Prometheus datasource, 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  If the servicemonitor was added correctly to the stage Prometheus datasource, 
```

      
  4. Add the dashboard json file to the folder you created.

  5. Create a `kustomization.yaml` to generate a config map from the dashboard json, 
  and to add the `GrafanaDashboard` resource file (`dashboard.yaml`), for example: 
      ```yaml
      kind: Kustomization
      apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1

      namespace: o11y

      configMapGenerator:
        - name: grafana-dashboard-o11y
          files:
            - dashboards/o11y-dashboard.json

      resources:
        - dashboard.yaml
      ```
  
  6. Create the `GrafanaDashboard` resource file that uses the config map to create the dashboard
      ```yaml
      apiVersion: integreatly.org/v1alpha1
      kind: GrafanaDashboard
      metadata:
        name: grafana-dashboard-o11y
        labels:
          app: appstudio-grafana
      spec:
        configMapRef:
          name: grafana-dashboard-o11y
          key: o11y-dashboard.json
      ```
 7. Push the code to the team's repository

 - Check out [this example o11y PR](https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/o11y/pull/39) 
 for creating a dashboard in the team's repository
  

#### infra-deployments repository

> Follow the next steps to add a dashborad to the `infra-deployments` repository

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to add a dashboard to the `infra-deployments` repository
```
